<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>
Untitled Document
 </title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" title="Sky" type="text/css" href="/preview_css/cnx-styles/newlook/document.css"/>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/js/exercise.js"> </script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/js/qml_1-0.js"> </script>
    <!--****QML**** sets the feedback and hints to non-visible.-->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/mathjax/MathJax.js">
          MathJax.Hub.Config({
            	extensions: ["mml2jax-bugfix.js"],
            	menuSettings: {zoom:"Click"},
            	"HTML-CSS": {scale:110},
            	jax: ["input/MathML","output/HTML-CSS"]
        	});
        	if(location.href.split("#").length != 1) {
          	MathJax.Hub.Register.StartupHook("End", function() {location.href = location.href; });
        	}
        </script>
    <style type="text/css">
	      .feedback {display:none}
	      .hint {display:none}
        body {margin: 0px; padding: 15px;}
	    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!--Editing In Place javascript-->
    <div id="cnx_module_header">
      <h1 id="cnx_content_title">
Untitled Document
 </h1>
    </div>
    <div xmlns:cnx="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml" xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml/0.4" xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0" xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds" xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/" id="cnx_main">
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id2057520"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
What does this mean?
   </strong></h2><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2105232">
Cambrian explosion refers to the tremendous increase in the number and type of
multicellular organisms at the start of the Cambrian period of the Paleozoic
era. Ancestral forms of all organisms emerged then, which have gradually
changed to become the life forms we see today.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id1651371">
Cambrian explosion: explanation
    <a class="link" href="http://www.fossilmuseum.net/Paleobiology/CambrianExplosion.htm">
     <u class="emphasis">
http://www.fossilmuseum.net/Paleobiology/CambrianExplosion.htm
     </u>
    </a>
   </p></div>
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id2022805"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Significant changes have taken place in all groups of plants and animals.
   </strong></h2><div class="section" id="import-auto-id1958218"><h3 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Plants:
    </strong></h3><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2004880">
From being purely aquatic, plants gradually colonized land and had to cope with
life in a completely different medium. They had to develop several structural
changes, such as:
    </p><div class="list" id="import-auto-id2022830"><ul class="bullet"><li class="item">
They developed true roots, stems and leaves with different tissues in these
organs. Some plants developed flowers and fruit.
      </li><li class="item">
They developed supporting tissue like xylem and thick secondary walls with
lignin.
      </li><li class="item">
They developed a means of protecting themselves against dehydration, such as the
development of a cuticle and sunken stomata.
      </li><li class="item">
They became less dependent on water for fertilization, using wind and or animals
to transfer pollen grains with sperm nuclei.
     </li></ul></div></div><div class="section" id="import-auto-id2073887"><h3 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Animals:
    </strong></h3><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2062503">
Animals also became more complex than their primitive ancestors. Some colonized
land and had to make further changes.
    </p><div class="list" id="import-auto-id2010523"><ul class="bullet"><li class="item">
They developed a head with a brain and limbs on both sides of the body.
      </li><li class="item">
The digestive system became more complex, developing a gut with two openings and
various glands associated with digestion.
      </li><li class="item">
They had to protect themselves against dehydration, so many developed internal
breathing systems, protecting the delicate lungs.
      </li><li class="item">
Birds and mammals became endothermic, i.e. able to keep their body temperatures
constant despite changes in environmental temperature.
     </li></ul></div><p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167114">
See:
     <u class="emphasis">
http:www.khanacademy.org/video/introducti-to-evolution-and-natural-
election?playlist=Biology
     </u>
    </p></div></div>
 </div>
  </body>
</html>
