<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>
Untitled Document
 </title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" title="Sky" type="text/css" href="/preview_css/cnx-styles/newlook/document.css"/>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/js/exercise.js"> </script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/js/qml_1-0.js"> </script>
    <!--****QML**** sets the feedback and hints to non-visible.-->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/mathjax/MathJax.js">
          MathJax.Hub.Config({
            	extensions: ["mml2jax-bugfix.js"],
            	menuSettings: {zoom:"Click"},
            	"HTML-CSS": {scale:110},
            	jax: ["input/MathML","output/HTML-CSS"]
        	});
        	if(location.href.split("#").length != 1) {
          	MathJax.Hub.Register.StartupHook("End", function() {location.href = location.href; });
        	}
        </script>
    <style type="text/css">
	      .feedback {display:none}
	      .hint {display:none}
        body {margin: 0px; padding: 15px;}
	    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!--Editing In Place javascript-->
    <div id="cnx_module_header">
      <h1 id="cnx_content_title">
Untitled Document
 </h1>
    </div>
    <div xmlns:cnx="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml" xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml/0.4" xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0" xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds" xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/" id="cnx_main">
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id951931"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Summary
   </strong></h2><div class="list" id="import-auto-id1718721"><ol class="lower-alpha"><li class="item">
      <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1614269">
       <b class="emphasis">
Life&#8217;s History:
       </b>
      </p>
      <div class="list" id="import-auto-id1677504"><ol class="lower-alpha"><li class="item">
The extremely long time periods in the earth&#8217;s history are divided into
eons, eras and periods for easier study.
        </li><li class="item">
Continental drift occurred by means of plate tectonic movements. The
supercontinent Pangaea split into Laurasia in the north and Gondwana in the
south, ultimately forming today&#8217;s continents.
       </li></ol></div>
      </li><li class="item">
      <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1425763">
       <b class="emphasis">
The Geological Time Scale:
       </b>
      </p>
     </li></ol></div><div class="list" id="import-auto-id1677920"><ul class="bullet"><li class="item">
Before the Paleozoic era, life consisted of bacterial mounds called
stromatolites, which oxygenated the atmosphere. The Cambrian explosion was a
sudden increase in complex multicellular life early n the Paleozoic era.
Organisms underwent further changes later.
      </li><li class="item">
The Paleozoic era ended with a massive extinction, killing many species. The
Mesozoic era started, when the dominant life forms were conifers and dinosaurs.
      </li><li class="item">
65 mya, the Mesozoic ended and the Caenozoic started, with mammals and flowering
plants becoming dominant. Human
      <b class="emphasis">
evolution also occurred in the latter stages of this era.
      </b>
     </li></ul></div><div class="list" id="import-auto-id1677812"><ol class="lower-alpha"><li class="item">
       <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1715592">
        <b class="emphasis">
Missing Links:
        </b>
       </p>
      </li></ol></div><div class="list" id="import-auto-id1601544"><ul class="bullet"><li class="item">
       <i class="emphasis">
Archaeopteryx
       </i>
is the link between dinosaurs and birds &#8211; it has teeth, feathers, a bony
long tail and claws on its forelimbs.
       </li><li class="item">
The coelacanth is the link between amphibians and fish. It has lobed fins,
primitive internal organs and nostrils that go right through into the mouth.
      </li></ul></div><div class="list" id="import-auto-id1711586"><ol class="lower-alpha"><li class="item">
        <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1600331">
         <b class="emphasis">
Fossils:
         </b>
        </p>
       </li></ol></div><div class="list" id="import-auto-id1684131"><ul class="bullet"><li class="item">
Fossils are formed in sedimentary rocks only over long periods.
        </li><li class="item">
They can be casts, moulds, mineralized body parts like bones / shells, imprints,
film fossils or even dung samples.
        </li><li class="item">
Fossils are dated using carbon 14 dating (fairly recent organic samples only) or
radiometric dating for older fossils.
        </li><li class="item">
Fossil sites bring in many tourists and can be important for the economy.
        </li><li class="item">
Some ancient organisms are seen as &#8220;living fossils&#8221; &#8211; they
were believed extinct, but are still present, e.g. the coelacanth and tuatara.
       </li></ul></div><div class="list" id="import-auto-id1712650"><ol class="lower-alpha"><li class="item">
         <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1425765">
          <b class="emphasis">
Key events in the history of life:
          </b>
         </p>
        </li></ol></div><div class="list" id="import-auto-id1717491"><ul class="bullet"><li class="item">
Stromatolite fossils were found in Barberton and fossils of soft-bodied animals
in Namibia.
         </li><li class="item">
Ancient plant fossils like
         <i class="emphasis">
Glossopteris
         </i>
are present in central KZN and near Grahamstown.
         </li><li class="item">
The coelacanth was &#8216;rediscovered&#8217; by the East London museum in 1938.
         </li><li class="item">
Mammal-like reptile fossils were found in the Karoo &#8211; they have advanced
palates and complex ear bones, unlike true reptiles. They are called
therapsids.
         </li><li class="item">
Dinosaur fossils can be seen in the Drakensberg and Maluti mountains. This are
also has fossils of the earliest small mammals.
         </li><li class="item">
Pre-human fossils like
         <i class="emphasis">
Australopithecus
         </i>
have been found in the Sterkfontein area and nearby places. This is unique
&#8211; nowhere else in the world do these fossils occur. The majority of these
finds were made by paleontologists from Wits University.
        </li></ul></div></div>
     </div>
  </body>
</html>
