<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>
Untitled Document
 </title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" title="Sky" type="text/css" href="/preview_css/cnx-styles/newlook/document.css"/>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/js/exercise.js"> </script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/js/qml_1-0.js"> </script>
    <!--****QML**** sets the feedback and hints to non-visible.-->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/mathjax/MathJax.js">
          MathJax.Hub.Config({
            	extensions: ["mml2jax-bugfix.js"],
            	menuSettings: {zoom:"Click"},
            	"HTML-CSS": {scale:110},
            	jax: ["input/MathML","output/HTML-CSS"]
        	});
        	if(location.href.split("#").length != 1) {
          	MathJax.Hub.Register.StartupHook("End", function() {location.href = location.href; });
        	}
        </script>
    <style type="text/css">
	      .feedback {display:none}
	      .hint {display:none}
        body {margin: 0px; padding: 15px;}
	    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!--Editing In Place javascript-->
    <div id="cnx_module_header">
      <h1 id="cnx_content_title">
Untitled Document
 </h1>
    </div>
    <div xmlns:cnx="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml" xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml/0.4" xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0" xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds" xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/" id="cnx_main">
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id1631225"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Summary
   </strong></h2><div class="list" id="import-auto-id1680256"><ul class="bullet"><li class="item">
Nutrients and oxygen are required by cells for cellular respiration. These are
transported by blood to the various cells.
     </li><li class="item">
Carbon dioxide and other wastes need to be transported from the cells to the
exterior. This is also transported via blood.
     </li><li class="item">
Blood is pumped through the heart under high pressure to the various parts of
the body.
     </li><li class="item">
The heart is divided into the left side of the heart and the right side of the
heart.
     </li><li class="item">
The left side receives deoxygenated blood from the body via veins and sends it
to the lungs to be oxygenated.
     </li><li class="item">
The right side of the heart receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and sends
it via arteries to all parts of the body.
     </li><li class="item">
The lymphatic system is composed of lymph vessels, lymph nodes, and organs.
     </li><li class="item">
Lymph vessels assist the circulatory system and all the cells of the body by
     <b class="emphasis">
removing wastes, germs and excess water
     </b>
from the tissue fluid.
     <b class="emphasis">
&#160;
     </b>
    </li></ul></div></div>
 </div>
  </body>
</html>
